Reshape documentation (#10901) (#11108)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/convert_model/Converting_Model.md

# Setting Input Shapes {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Converting_Model}

> Paragraphs below provide details about specifying input shapes for model conversion.

Author: ```suggestion
Model Optimizer provides the option of making models more efficient by providing additional shape definition.
It is achieved with two parameters: `--input_shape` and `--static_shape`, used under certain conditions.
```

## When to Specify --input_shape Command-line Parameter <a name="when_to_specify_input_shapes"></a>
Model Optimizer supports conversion of models with dynamic input shapes that contain undefined dimensions.

> However, if the shape of inference data is not going to change from one inference request to another,

Author: ```suggestion
However, if the shape of data is not going to change from one inference to another,
```

it is recommended to set up static shapes (when all dimensions are fully defined) for the inputs.
It can be beneficial from a performance perspective and memory consumption.
To set up static shapes, Model Optimizer provides the `--input_shape` parameter.

> This is an offline approach to set static shapes and it can save time and memory on runtime shape change.
> To learn more about runtime shape change please see a dedicated article about [reshape feature](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/ShapeInference.md).
> For more information about the dynamic shapes, refer to [Dynamic Shapes](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md)

Author: ```suggestion
The same functionality is also available in runtime via `reshape` method, please refer to [Changing input shapes](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/ShapeInference.md).
For more information about dynamic shapes in runtime, refer to [Dynamic Shapes](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md)
```

OpenVINO Runtime API can have limitations to infer models with undefined dimensions on some hardware (see [Features support matrix](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md) for reference).

> In this case, the `--input_shape` parameter and the [reshape method](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/ShapeInference.md) can help resolving undefined dimensions.

Author: ```suggestion
In this case, the `--input_shape` parameter and the [reshape method](../../../OV_Runtime_UG/ShapeInference.md) can help to resolve undefined dimensions.
```
